Rules System
============
A rule system should be able to evaluate conditions and perform actions, which
include continuing to process rules, or stopping. The conditions will need to
access configuration, exclusions, and tracking data.

- A constraint on total tracking time, "do not spend more than 4 hours on x".
- A constraint that only allows certain tags to be used together, to prevent
  client 1 from being billed for project 2.
- A constraint that only allows multiples of 15-minute intervals.

Ref: http://martinfowler.com/bliki/RulesEngine.html

Instead of configuration, a rules system stores various settings and
configuration data as rules. There are several different types of rules, which
are loaded at launch time, and applied at various times during execution.

Some rules can be manipulated at the command line ('exclusions'), but most will
require editing the rules file. It is not intended that new users edit the
rules file, therefore some rules are automatically maintained from the command
line.

The rules are a mechanism to apply late-bound logic and data to various
functions. Whenever data changes, the rule system is run, which will run each
rule in turn, if it applies, going from top to bottom in the rules file. There
are no chained rules, but errors will terminate rule processing and program
execution.

As much functionality as possible is to be deferred to the rules.


Format
------
The rules are written in a UTF8 text file, in a known location. Other rules
files may be included:

  import /path/to/other/rules

The syntax of rules is Python-like, in that indentation is significant.

Types of Rules
--------------
There are several different types of rules, for example there is the rule that
defines all exclusions:

  define exclusions:
    ...

There are general rules triggered by changes to the data:

  define rule one:
    ...

There are rules that define tags and their metadata:

  define tag "tag1":
    ...


Rule Type: Exclusions
---------------------
Because exclusions are resolved at run time, and only when needed, they should
be stored in a form very close to the command line syntax, with no expansion.
For example:

  $ timew define workweek mon - fri

Should be stored in a rule, whose purpose is to return a set of exclusion
intervals:

  define exclusions:
    include workweek mon,tue,wed,thu,fri

Further definitions will build on this rule:

  $ timew define workday start 8:30am

Yields a combined:

  define exclusions:
    interval workweek mon,tue,wed,thu,fri
    interval workday start 8:30am

Possible exclusions include:

  $ timew define holidays eng-USA
  $ timew define workweek mon-fri
  $ timew define workday start 8:30am
  $ timew define workday end 1730
  $ timew define workday tue end 3pm

Yielding:

  define exclusions:
    interval holidays eng-USA
    interval work 2015-11-26
    interval workweek mon,tue,wed,thu,fri
    interval workday start 8:30am
    interval workday end 1730
    interval workday tue end 3pm


Rule Type: General
------------------
There are rules triggered by changes to the data. In this example, rule 'one'
is a constraint that prevents the value 'foo' from exceeding three. It is
triggered by a change to 'foo', which is a DOM reference, and can prevent the
update by failing:

  define rule one:
    tagset tag1
    if foo > 3:
      error "The value of 'foo' may not exceed 3."

Note that this rule is defined as applying to the tagset 'tag1'.


Rule Type: Tag
--------------
A defined tag is a way to associate metadata with a tag, such as a description
and start/end dates for use:

  define tag "tag1":
    description "Description of tag1"
    start       2016-01-01
    end         2016-06-30
    budget      20 hours per week
    budget      400 hours total


Built-in Functions
------------------
There are several built-in functions, which may be used by rules:

  error("...")         Logs, emits and terminates
  warning("...")       Logs, emits and continues
  info("...")          Logs, emits and continues
  log("...")           Logs and continues
  sum_week("tag1")     Sums minutes in the current week for "tag1"

---

